# Getting Started {#started}

## Generating pre-commit hooks

In JustEnoughMod (JEM) pre-commit hooks are getting generated by a nix dev shell. Simply install nix via your package manager and run in the JEM directory following command (you might need too enable nix-command and flake feature in nix):

```shell
nix develop .#precommit -c true
```

## Building project without nix

This is simpler than using nix, however you do not get the reproducibility and dependency management benefits.

### Dependency installation {#dependency}

@warning You will need to search for the package matching your distro.

Following programs are required for JEM:

- Compiler supporting c++23 (>=gcc-14, >=clang-17), it is recommended to use the latest compiler available
- clang format (>= llvm 17)
- cppchecks
- meson with ninja

Following programs are required for documentation generation:

- doxygen 1.9.1 - 1.9.4 or  1.9.6 - 1.10.0 (see doxygen-awesome-css)
- graphviz

Following dependencies ar required for compiling:

- GLFW3 (optional)
- spdlog (optional)
- vulkan header
- vulkan loader
- vulkan validation layer (optional, only for debugging)
- wayland libraries

@note Optional libraries are recommended to speed up compile speed.

### Build commands {#build}

Before building JEM you need to initialize meson first.

```shell
./init.sh
```

@note If you get error you probably missed some dependencies see @ref dependency.

For building you now just need to run:

```shell
./build.sh
```

After that you can just type:

```shell
./run.sh
```

or run the executable directly.

Another handy script is:

```shell
./tidy.sh
```

This will run clang-tidy and check your code for possible improvements.

For generating documentation you just need to call:

```shell
./docs.sh
```

## Building with nix

For setting up the project using nix not other dependency than nix itself is needed. You might need to enable "nix-commands" and "flakes" as experimental features (see nix documentation).

Following command will setup pre-commit and all needed dependencies (recommended for development):

```shell
nix develop
```

Now you can just proceed with @ref build.

You can also build the project automatically into the result directory using
```shell
nix build
```

Another option is to directly run the directly after compile without the creation of the result directory:

```shell
nix run
```

@note `nix build` and `nix run` will recompile the project after every change without any cache. It is not recommend to use this for development, however it is recommend to use this for production.
